Google Analytics (GA): We have been tracking moonmother.com.au since the launch, so you’ll be happy to find a ton of information available on how users interact with the website. I’ve invited you (wmeclients38@gmail.com) to gain access.
2.    Google verification tag: The website is already verified and tagged to my account. Adding your tag would invalidate my account. Let’s avoid that. I’m assuming you ask for this so you can have access to Search Console?

3.    Search Console: I’ve gone ahead and invited you (wmeclients38@gmail.com) to Google’s Search Console. Here you will find precious data on how users search for and find Moon Mother on Google.

4.    Google Tag Manager (GTM): This website is an built on Ember, an asynchronous one-page Javascript framework. We chose Ember in order to persist the animations of the rotating navigation across pages. The standard GTM script you sent us won’t work as you expect. For one, to make GA work, one needs to hook the Ember route internals to GA methods. Moreover, from a security point of view I’m not comfortable with having GTM on the website either. This would allow WME to inject arbitrary scripts onto the website without supervision. I’d prefer you send me the scripts and I’ll make sure they get installed safely. Is that all right?

5.    Duplicating the homepage 8 times: You’ve asked to create 8 copies of the homepage, identical pages apart from the meta tags. Could you explain how this will help us? Does Google not crack down on duplicate content? Does this not water down our homepage on the SERPs? Is this for search key word matching?

6.    Update sitemap: Easy enough. To be done after 5.

7.    Enable caching: This is a good idea. This will make the website load faster for returning users. I’m afraid the script you sent us is for an old Apache server whereas moonmother.com.au is hosted on an Nginx Ubuntu server. You can see this in your browser’s developer tools. I’ll find this Nginx equivalent of your script and enable caching for Moon Mother.

8.    Compressing images: This too is a good idea. This will make images load faster and shorten the time to first render (which Google loves). Just compressing images will give us small performance gains though. Instead I propose to step up our game further with responsive image sets. That means for each image we make 4 to 8 copies of different sizes. Then depending on the screen width of your device we load the small, medium or large sized images. This dramatically increases the loading speed for mobile browsers, which is todays mobile-first priority. We have done this to www.hannahsuttondesign.com/ resulting the website to load 3 times faster on mobile devices and 2 times faster on desktops. This is however takes time to do well. We’ll ask Moonmother.

9.    Add contact page: Designing a new contact page, building it and extending the rotating navigation to responsively fit 4 links may end up being a bit time consuming. An easier win with the same effect may be to use structured data on the contact section in the footer on every page. We’ll embed https://schema.org compliant structured data which Google bots can read and index. We’ll make it match the Google My Business data. In Search Console we can see the structured data Google has indexed. Sounds all right?

10.  Add meta titles and descriptions: I’m unsure why you’d ask this. All 3 pages already have meta titles and descriptions. In your browser’s developer tools you can see them in the DOM. Also in Google Analytics and Search Console we can see these appear correctly. Do feel free to suggests better descriptions and titles would be. These are easy to update.

11.  Benchmarks? Which moonmother.com.au metrics are you aiming to improve? Common wisdom says “Thou shalt not do SEO without measuring the impact of your changes”. What are your benchmarks? How can we measure that your suggestions made positive impact?









1.    Duplicating the homepage 8 times: These additional pages are not duplications of the homepage, our content team is currently writing unique copy for each and every page. This is to ensure we get them ranking in Google based on the keywords we have decided on with Jenny. We set “target pages” to grow the amount of keywords we can rank the website for (each with unique content that we write), as it would not be possible with just one basic homepage alone – especially due to the fact we don’t want to clutter the homepage with too much content and ruin the great UX and layout it currently has..

2.    Please see below for the suggested pages and their titles:

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/
META TITLE: Concert Staging & Event Production Melbourne (this page exists already obviously, we’d just like to change the meta-title to suit the keyword strategy as it’s currently just the company name which doesn’t benefit in the SERP)

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/event-hire
META TITLE: Event Hire Melbourne | Event Planning & Equipment Hire Melbourne

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/festival-stage-hire
META TITLE: Festival Stage Hire Melbourne | Indoor & Outdoor Stage Hire

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/mobile-trailer-stage/
META TITLE: Mobile Trailer Stage Melbourne | Mobile Stage Truck

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/sound-system/
META TITLE: PA Hire Melbourne | Sound Systems Hire Melbourne

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/lighting-hire/
META TITLE: Event Stage Lighting Hire Melbourne

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/truss-hire/
META TITLE: Truss Hire Melbourne | Stage Lighting Truss Hire Melbourne

URL: https://moonmother.com.au/av-hire/
META TITLE: Audio Visual Equipment Hire Melbourne

3.    Add contact page: As for the contact page, this is just to optimise in line with Google My Business / Maps. Even though Moon Mother is a mobile service and not destination based, getting this sorted with benefit SEO and trust with Google. If you check my first email below, I have sent a screenshot with where the Contact Page would link to as a button, we don’t want to add it to the navigation bar Javascript section as you explained it would be a lot of work with little reward. We had a look in Search Console and in regards to Schema, seems there is no issues/errors at present.

4.    Add meta titles and descriptions: We would just like to optimise the meta-titles and descriptions to match the keyword strategy, as present the meta-titles are just geared towards the business and branding. This is a small enhancement in terms of SEO but will defiantly help Moon Mother in rankings for the services they wish to rank for.

5.    Benchmarks? We ran a “benchmark report” which is basically where Moon Mother ranks in Google for the selected keywords without any SEO work. We then send a monthly update to show positive changes in Google and the movements up to the first page. I have attached the benchmark report to this email so you can see the keyword list and rankings without any SEO. We also like to setup goal tracking in Google Analytics if possible, so we can track the improvement not only in traffic but also enquires/conversions.

6.     I was thinking for Moon Mother, would it be easy to setup Goal Tracking for emails (mailto: clicks) and phone calls (tel: clicks) to track enquires? We have only have viewing access to Analytics which is great, but we cannot setup this goal tracking ourselves.





TODO:

Metrics:
* Fire up GA events
* Set up goals in GA (which?)
  click email button
  click to call

SEO:
* Update meta data (?)
* Contact page (??)
* Multiple landing pages (???)

Performance:
* Caching
* Responsive images
